Dating back to the mid-19th Century when then Great Britain still remains the strongest nation power around the globe, the British colonization has long been a widely debated and discussed issues by both sides including conlonial apologists and colonial critics. Ever since the British colonization over the India, it is undoubtedly recognized that there has seen a significant impact on both countries, especially in its fields of economy and politics.
In the current times, colonial apologists maintains a mainstream perspective that the major continental infrasturcture projects during the mid-19th century had a generally positive effect on both countries in all aspects. As in clear contrast, colonial critics crticizes the Britsh government of the past act in colonizing the country of India for the negative side effects brought by the movement. 
To start with the detailed comparison, economic historians have seen clearly that the wide financial strength gap between the colonizer and conlonized country exsists. Therefore, India, as one of the largest countries located in Asia, boasts vast resources and products that Europeans are in great need, leading to trade oppotunities betweeen both countries on the purpose to largely alleviate the wealth difference between both countries. From the perspective of India, the establishment of British India Company can be stated as both a comedy and a tragedy. Since the positive effect can be mainly concluded as bringing in India trade oppotunities, providing more jobs from the native Indians so as to further reduce the umemployment rate as well as decreasing the wealth gap in a country. However the negative effects can be equally astoning. As the post-colonization times of India concludes a time of recession, the disadvantages of the major continental infrasturcture projects emerge as the native Indians struggle to find a working oppotunity. On the other side of the spectrum, British colonizers gain much profit from the establishment of new trade routes as well as the trade surplus especially made while trading from India to the United Kingdom. Popular trading products including tea, artworks and cultural items especially artefacts are largely welcomed in the country of Great Britain. Henceforth, the great amount of low-cost labour force of native India people brings the workforce to transport items indeed, thus dramatically increasing the benefits gained from the local residents. 
In terms of political impacts, the colonization of Great Britain in India has brought this mysterious Asian country the new political system based on democracy and justice. But in contrast, adversely caused the failure of govern later in the post-colonization period as Indian people struggle to find an effective method to maintain social stablity in the nation. Ever since the Queen Victoria is recognized as the noble queen of India, the India entered the historic state of being ruled by the Great Britain. Thereby, the act has caused various long-term effects including the re-establishement of the exsisting social orders and laws, for the British eager to implement the policies of European states. It can be forseen that the system will work in order under the supervision of British governors as they are clearly aware of the methods to operate the system, enabling the government to function when the residents are in need. Thus, discriminations are easily raised due to the obvious reason that it is the British that are the top-class of the Indian society, for the local residents are of the nation that is colonized, they are clearly outweighted in the competition of the power to rule their country by themselves, as this ironically indicating the so called democratica and justified political system newly brought in by the British colonizers.
Concluding in terms of all aspects, it clearly reflects the fact that the pros comes with the cons as both sides of a coin. Colonial apologists held the belief that the establishment of major continental infrastructures projects in India during the mid-1900s has brought benefits to both countries, for their point of view emphasizes on perspective of the Great Britain and the trade benefits brought to both countries. On the other side, colonial critics are putting their emphasis on the overall well-being of local residences, as they hold the strong belief that the act of colonization fails to bring improvements to the local Indias, it causes more negative effects in comparision to its benefits in accordance with the point raised by colonial critics. All in all, it is a contrasting issue and rather a debatable one.
